# MSDS460SP2022_Monte_Carlo


To complete this assignment, you need to respond to these five parts and questions:

1. Construct a flowchart to represent the rainwater harvesting/recapture system. Your drawing should show the process from inputs to outputs. Design a model to represent monthly rainfall. The model should consider the observed monthly rainfall distribution and what you know about water consumption. Account for the dimensions of the storage tank. Consider what happens when the tank overflows. Does your model capture the essential aspects of the problem? How do you see this model being implemented in a Monte Carlo simulation? 
2. Generate a table of monthly rainfall using the empirical sampling distribution of actual rainfall data from 2000 through 2011. Represent these data in statistical graphs such as histograms or density plots. What probability distribution and random number generator would you suggest representing the rainfall distribution. This probability distribution will be used to drive the simulation. Why have you selected this distribution?
3. Implement the Monte Carlo simulation in Python, R, or Go. Utilize open-source packages where possible. Include input parameters in the program, so you can easily change the values of these parameters. (Do not hard-code parameter values.) Employ coding best practices with short, meaningful variable names. Include comments in your code. Describe your program. How will you use this program to answer the rancher's questions?  
4. Run one thousand iterations of the Monte Carlo simulation. Start each iteration with 10 thousand gallons in the tank. Run each iteration of the simulation for 30 years. The key metric to obtain from each iteration is the minimum gallons of water in the tank. Use tables and statistical graphics (histograms or density plots) to show this key metric from the simulation. What have you learned by running the simulation? Does the rancher need to change the dimensions of the storage tank? 
5. Consider possible effects of climate change. What parameter settings may be needed to account for climate change? Rerun the simulation with alternative settings for key parameters. Represent results from these additional simulations with tables and statistical graphics. What have you learned from these additional simulation runs? Does the rancher need to change the dimensions of the storage tank? Do you have any additional suggestions for improving the simulation?